Add new blog post for website search functionality (#3391)
opensearch-project/project-website: _posts/2024-10-14-Introduction-of-new-opensearch-website-search.markdown

---
layout: post
title: Introducing enhanced search functionality on OpenSearch.org
authors:
   - zelinhao
   - kolchfa

> date: 2024-10-14 

Reviewer: Update the date to: 2024-10-30

Reviewer 2: Done

> date: 2024-10-14 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
date: 2024-10-30 
```

categories:
  - community-updates
  - update
  - community

> meta_keywords: OpenSearch search update, improved search results, advanced filters, documentation search, OpenSearch search page, Amazon OpenSearch Service, version-specific search, search infrastructure update

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_keywords: improve search functionality, OpenSearch search experience, OpenSearch.org, advanced filtering options, enhanced search experience
```

> meta_description: Discover the new and improved search functionality on OpenSearch.org. Learn how our updated infrastructure, advanced filters, and dedicated search results page make it easier to find the documentation, blog posts, and event information you need.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
meta_description: Explore the enhanced search experience on OpenSearch.org. Discover how our upgraded infrastructure, advanced filtering options, and dedicated search page make it easier to locate the documentation and content you need.
```

> ---

Reviewer: Updated meta: 
meta_keywords: improve search functionality, OpenSearch search experience, OpenSearch.org, advanced filtering options, enhanced search experience

meta_description: Explore the enhanced search experience on OpenSearch.org. Discover how our upgraded infrastructure, advanced filtering options, and dedicated search page make it easier to locate the documentation and content you need.

Reviewer 2: Updated.

We're pleased to announce an update to the search functionality on OpenSearch.org. This new design addresses key challenges in the current infrastructure and search experience while setting the stage for more advanced search features that help you find the information you need more easily.

## The new search functionality

The previous search system had limitations related to scalability, maintenance, and user experience. With this update, we're moving to Amazon OpenSearch Service for a more reliable and scalable infrastructure, and we've added new search features to make your experience faster and more efficient.

**Here's what's new:**

- [**Improved infrastructure**](#better-search-infrastructure) to eliminate deployment and indexing issues.
- **No more duplicate results**, giving you cleaner and more accurate search results.
- A [**new search results page**](#new-search-results-page) that goes beyond the dropdown format.

> - **Filters for documentation, blogs, and events** to help you focus on relevant content.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- **Filters for documentation, blog posts, and events** to help you focus on relevant content.
```

- The ability to **search archived versions** of documentation.

## Better search infrastructure

> We've restructured the backend of our search system to improve both performance and relevance. Now, content is indexed by documentation version, so your search results are version-specific. This reduces clutter and duplication, making it easier for you to find the right information quickly.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've restructured the backend of our search system to improve both performance and relevance. Now content is indexed by documentation version, so your search results are version specific. This reduces clutter and duplication, making it easier for you to find the right information quickly.
```

We've also upgraded from basic query strings to `match` and `multi_match` queries, which provide more precise results by searching across multiple fields. Additionally, we've applied `indices_boost` to prioritize documentation in search results, further improving relevance.

## New search results page

> We've moved away from the simple dropdown search interface to a full search results page, offering a more powerful and user-friendly way to navigate search results. This page gives you more control over your search and makes it easier to refine your results.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
We've moved away from the simple dropdown search interface in favor of a full search results page, offering a more powerful and user-friendly way to navigate search results. This page gives you more control over your search experience and makes it easier to refine your results.
```

## Key features

> Here's a look at the key improvements and new features that enhance your search experience on OpenSearch.org:

Reviewer 4: I think "that enhance your search experience" is telling the user what their reaction should be. I'd prefer to be more matter of fact, e.g., 

...new features in OpenSearch.org search:

> Here's a look at the key improvements and new features that enhance your search experience on OpenSearch.org:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Here's a look at the key improvements and new features in OpenSearch.org search:
```

- **Dedicated search results page**:

>     After submitting a search, you'll be taken to a new page that shows a more comprehensive list of results than the previous dropdown. You can browse through these results more easily, without leaving the page.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    After submitting a search, you'll be taken to a new page that shows a more comprehensive list of results than was provided by the previous dropdown. You can browse through these results more easily, without leaving the page.
```

>     After submitting a search, you'll be taken to a new page that shows a more comprehensive list of results than was provided by the previous dropdown. You can browse through these results more easily, without leaving the page.

Reviewer 4: Suggested text:
Search results are shown on a dedicated page with a comprehensive list of results, which makes it easy to review them.

>     After submitting a search, you'll be taken to a new page that shows a more comprehensive list of results than was provided by the previous dropdown. You can browse through these results more easily, without leaving the page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Search results are shown on a dedicated page with a comprehensive list of results, which makes it easy to review them.
```

- **Persistent search box**:
    The search box stays at the top of the page, allowing you to refine your query or enter new keywords without losing your current search context.

- **Advanced filters**:
    The new page includes filtering options to help you focus your search. You can filter by:
    - **Documentation**: Narrow down your search to technical documentation.

>     - **Blogs**: View relevant blog posts.

Reviewer 3: "Blogs" should be "Blog posts", but if this is the actual name of the filter, then fine to leave as is.

    - **Events**: Search through events and announcements.
    - **All**: Search across all types of content.

>     You can also filter by specific documentation versions, like “OpenSearch 2.17 (latest)” or “OpenSearch 1.3.” This is particularly useful if you're working with different versions of OpenSearch and need access to historical documentation.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    You can also filter by specific documentation versions, like "OpenSearch 2.17 (latest)" or "OpenSearch 1.3." This is particularly useful if you're working with different versions of OpenSearch and need access to historical documentation.
```

- **Organized results display**:
    Search results are displayed clearly, with:

>     - **Title and summary**:

Reviewer 3: "A title and summary" (to complete the introductory stem)? Again, if this is an actual name, then fine to leave as is.

>     - **Title and summary**:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - **A title and summary**:
```

>     Each result includes a clickable title and a brief summary to give you an idea of the content before you click through.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    Each result includes a clickable title and a brief summary of the content.
```

>     - **Breadcrumb navigation**:

Reviewer 3: Above: "clickable" => "selectable"? (Accessibility)

>     Each result shows its location within the documentation structure, helping you keep track of where you are.

Reviewer 3: This sentence could probably end at "structure," but if we want to keep the second phrase, then "where you are" could perhaps be a bit more precisely stated.

>     Each result shows its location within the documentation structure, helping you keep track of where you are.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    Each result shows its location within the documentation structure.
```
